misc/README.md, before:

# Miscellaneous

This directory contains scripts which I did not really know where to put else.

There are supposed to be fun little scripts in here, 
that don't serve a particular purpose, or
other tools that may be handy at one point or another.

For example `ii2l.bash` asks the question whether or not it is too late,
while `runJabRef.bash` is a wrapper to JabRef.

I have started some data sheets with values that are often needed;
they are available as pdf files with their LaTeX source files.
Some of them might be available as markdown files, too.

```
.
├── data-sheets
│   ├── dftd3bj.pdf
│   ├── radii.md
│   ├── radii.pdf
│   └── src
├── ii2l.bash
├── jabref
│   ├── README.md
│   └── runJabRef.bash
├── local-basis
│   ├── basis-download
│   ├── bse.db
│   ├── download-bs.bash
│   ├── make-db.bash
│   ├── README.md
│   └── search-db.bash
├── README.md
└── recommended-software.md
```

## Recommended software and resources

This directory also includes an (unsorted) list of recommended software and resources:
[`recommended-software.md`](./recommended-software.md), or view it online at 
[GitHub](https://github.com/polyluxus/rwth-tools/blob/master/misc/recommended-software.md).

___version___: 2019-06-24-1724

## Additional resources

- [How can I use a variable as a case condition?](https://unix.stackexchange.com/q/234264/160000)
- [How can I sort or compare files based on some metadata attribute (newest / oldest modification time, size, etc)?](http://mywiki.wooledge.org/BashFAQ/003)
- [JabRef](http://www.jabref.org/), [build snapshot](https://builds.jabref.org/)

Commit message:

GPL-3.0, gjf2xmol, bugfixes, remove deprecated scripts (#9)
- Added GPL-3.0 license
- Added scripts directory and `gjf2xmol` conversion script
- Bugfix: `init_modules` correctly exits on loading error
- Bugfix: `myjobinfo_slurm.sh` switch `-E` was not completely implemented
- Added: the rwth-compress script lets you perform a test run
- Removed: `local_basis` is deprecated because of changed interface to the website
- Added: `myq_slurm` now counts the listed jobs

misc/README.md, after:

# Miscellaneous

This directory contains scripts which I did not really know where to put else.

There are supposed to be fun little scripts in here, 
that don't serve a particular purpose, or
other tools that may be handy at one point or another.

For example `ii2l.bash` asks the question whether or not it is too late,
while `runJabRef.bash` is a wrapper to JabRef.

I have started some data sheets with values that are often needed;
they are available as pdf files with their LaTeX source files.
Some of them might be available as markdown files, too.

```
.
├── data-sheets
│   ├── dftd3bj.pdf
│   ├── radii.md
│   ├── radii.pdf
│   └── src
├── ii2l.bash
├── jabref
│   ├── README.md
│   └── runJabRef.bash
├── README.md
└── recommended-software.md
```

## Recommended software and resources

This directory also includes an (unsorted) list of recommended software and resources:
[`recommended-software.md`](./recommended-software.md), or view it online at 
[GitHub](https://github.com/polyluxus/rwth-tools/blob/master/misc/recommended-software.md).


## Additional resources

- [How can I use a variable as a case condition?](https://unix.stackexchange.com/q/234264/160000)
- [How can I sort or compare files based on some metadata attribute (newest / oldest modification time, size, etc)?](http://mywiki.wooledge.org/BashFAQ/003)
- [JabRef](http://www.jabref.org/), [build snapshot](https://builds.jabref.org/)


## License (GNU General Public License v3.0)

rwth-tools - a collection of scripts for CLAIX18  
Copyright (C) 2019 Martin C Schwarzer

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

See [LICENSE](../../LICENSE) to see the full text.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

___version___: 2019-09-10-1348
