README.md, before:

# RWTH-tools

This is a small collection of scripts and other files, which are or were (more or less) 
helpful in operating the RWTH cluster(s).

There should be seperate README files in each subdirectory explaining details.

This probably goes without saying, but here we go anyway:
There is also absolutely no warranty in any case (see below and [LICENSE](LICENSE)). 
If you decide to use any of the scripts or files, it is entirely your resonsibility.

## License (GNU General Public License v3.0)

rwth-tools - a collection of scripts for CLAIX18  
Copyright (C) 2019 Martin C Schwarzer

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) to see the full text.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

___version___: 2019-09-10-1500

Commit message:

End of Support (#10)
* fixed wrong execution mode rwth-compress

The filenames were not always properly recognised, fixed this with some
workarounds.
If the script was called from somewhere else than a path that contains
the username, and the script attempted to remove the prefix, it would
have written something garbled (if at all) this should be fixed now.

* Bump version to 2019-09-17-1200

Added 'End of Support' notice

README.md, after:

# RWTH-tools

This is a small collection of scripts and other files, which are or were (more or less) 
helpful in operating the RWTH cluster(s).

There should be seperate README files in each subdirectory explaining details.

This probably goes without saying, but here we go anyway:
There is also absolutely no warranty in any case (see below and [LICENSE](LICENSE)). 
If you decide to use any of the scripts or files, it is entirely your resonsibility.

## End of Support

As of today, 17th September 2019, 
the content within this repository will no longer be updated and/ or maintained by me.
I welcome everyone finding this repository useful to fork and modify their own version.
If there are crucial bugs, that other people should know about,
please log them via the [Github issue tracker](https://github.com/polyluxus/rwth-tools/issues).


## License (GNU General Public License v3.0)

rwth-tools - a collection of scripts for CLAIX18  
Copyright (C) 2019 Martin C Schwarzer

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) to see the full text.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

___version___: 2019-09-17-1200
